- [Instructor] Now let's take a look at the three
remaining APIs, shutdown now, and await termination.
Now let's first understand this.
When you create the executor service, or check,
in your application,
it is not going to be destroyed automatically.
You have to destroy it yourself.
Now, if you do not destroy the object,
it is good at times, because your application
may have certain jobs coming on an irregular basis.
So in that case you may want the service object
to be alive so that tasks can be submitted.
That's okay.
However, if you know that all the tasks in your application
are definitely reaching the completion point,
then, it is wise, to of course,
go ahead and destroy the service object.
So, that you can reclaim the resources.
So the shutdown mechanism for this service
happens via these three APIs.
That is shutdown, shutdown now, and await termination.
No, let's say you talk about the shutdown method.
When you invoke this method, what essentially happens is
there is a shutdown request that is initiated,
and because of this, no new tasks will be accepted
by that service.
Secondly, all the previously submitted tasks
will be executed.
However, unfortunately this method does not guarantee
that all the previously submitted tasks will indeed
reach their completion point.
Now, that's a drawback here.
The second API, which is shutdown now is a little rude.
What it does is that when you invoke it,
it will do two things.
It will hold the execution of the waiting tasks.
In fact it will hold the waiting tasks completely,
and it will also stop the execution
of the currently running tasks.
So it's very rude.
And the return value of this method
is a list of the waiting tasks.
So that you know the deplug
and decide what's to be done with them.
Now, await termination is a better choice.
It's always used alone with shutdown and shutdown now.
And what does it do?
It is actually going to be responsible to block
until all the previously submitted tasks
have reached the completion point.
And await termination is going to do this check for you
only after you initiate the shutdown request, right?
What it means is you have to call this method first,
and as I said, this method does not guarantee
that the tasks completed.
So the completion check can be done with await termination.
Okay?
And this method actually demands a timeout period.
Which, is going to signify how much time you're supposed
to wait for all the previously submitted tasks
to reach the completion, right?
If the time elapses, then the service is going
to shutdown anyway, right?
So, what we'll do is, we'll take these three APIs
and we'll use it in combination in our example
to understand it better.
Let's go to the code.
So this was the last testing other APIs class
that we were working on.
So what I'm going to do here is,
I'm just going to save, take the service object,
and call the shutdown method first.
So by this you're actually initiating
the request for shutdown.
However, since this does not guarantee the completion
of the executions of the submitted task,
I am also going to do await termination.
So you see that it actually tries to give you
a way of setting the timeout.
So, let's say, the timeout is 30,
and the time unit parameter is seconds.
Okay?
I'm going to relate this entire statement
and put it in the form of sysout.
So that you know I'm able to see the output
of this method on the console.
Now, this await termination actually returns bullion value.
So, if that service was shutdown successfully,
then it will return true.
If however, this timeout elapses,
then it is going to return me a false, okay?
And of course, if the operation is interrupted,
it will throw and interrupt exception.
So let's surround that with a try catch.
There we go.
And interrupted exception will look of
there's an interruption, so when I come
inside the catch block, I will see
service.shutdownnow.
Because the service is to anyway shutdown
if there's an interruption, okay?
So it will return a true if the service
got terminated correctly.
It will return a false if the time elapses.
And if there is an interruption in the execution,
then you may even have to quickly call shutdown now.
So that's how you employ all the three methods together
in order to shutdown the executor service.
Let's quickly run this.
Let's also do one thing on line number 62.
Let's put a small label there.
Let's ask a question.
Is the service shutdown?
And yeah, there we go.
And let's see what the answer is.
So, I'm going to go ahead and run this.
Yeah.
The service was indeed shut down,
because the 30 seconds timeout period
that I had specified as an argument
was enough to make sure that all
the previously submitted tasks
reached their completion point.
Okay?
Just make sure that the timeout that is specified
should be relatively large enough,
so that you can give a proper time
for all the previously submitted tasks to execute.
Okay, so those are the APIs.
So you've seen the executor service as a whole,
you've seen a lot of the API calls
in the executor service object,
so we are good to go with it.
In the next video,
we'll see the scheduled executor service API.